Notification Preferences
========================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/25/notifications/preference-page.png
    :target: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/25/notifications/preference-page.png
    :align: center

OpenWISP Notifications enables users to customize their notification
preferences by selecting their preferred method of receiving
updatesâ€”either through web notifications or email. These settings are
organized by notification type and organization, allowing users to tailor
their notification experience by opting to receive updates only from
specific organizations or notification types.

Users can access and manage their notification preferences directly from
the notification widget by clicking the button highlighted in the
screenshot below:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/25/notifications/notification-preferences-button.png
    :target: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/25/notifications/notification-preferences-button.png
    :align: center

Alternatively, you can also visit ``/notification/preferences/`` to manage
your settings.

.. note::

    - You can disable notifications globally while still enabling them for
      specific organizations.
    - Notification settings are now linked: disabling web notifications
      will automatically disable email notifications, and enabling email
      notifications will automatically enable web notifications.
    - Deleting notification settings is no longer possible via the web
      interface (please use the REST API if removal is needed).

Notification settings are automatically generated for all notification
types and organizations for every user. Superusers have the ability to
manage notification settings for all users, including adding or deleting
them. Meanwhile, staff users can modify their preferred notification
delivery methods, choosing between receiving notifications via web, email,
or both. Additionally, users have the option to disable notifications
entirely by turning off both web and email notification settings.

.. note::

    If a user has not configured their preferences for email or web
    notifications for a specific notification type, the system will
    default to using the ``email_notification`` or ``web_notification``
    option defined for that notification type.

Organization Settings
---------------------

Organization administrators have the ability to configure default
notification settings at the organization level. These settings serve as
the baseline configuration for all users within the organization and can
be accessed through the organization's admin interface.

.. note::

    Organization settings provide default values that apply to all users
    within the organization. However, individual users can override these
    defaults by configuring their own notification preferences.

When an organization admin disables web notifications at the organization
level, email notifications are automatically disabled as well, following
the same linking behavior as individual user settings. This ensures
consistency across the notification system.

Organization settings override the global defaults defined in Django
project settings (see :ref:`openwisp_notifications_web_enabled` and
:ref:`openwisp_notifications_email_enabled`) and establish new default
values for all users within that specific organization. This allows
organization administrators to customize the notification behavior to suit
their organization's needs while maintaining the flexibility for
individual users to further customize their own preferences if desired.

.. _notifications_silencing:

Silencing Notifications for Specific Objects
--------------------------------------------

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/silence-notifications.png
    :target: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openwisp/openwisp-notifications/docs/docs/images/silence-notifications.png
    :align: center

OpenWISP Notifications allows users to silence all notifications generated
by specific objects they are not interested in for a desired period of
time or even permanently, while other users will keep receiving
notifications normally.

Using the widget on an object's admin change form, a user can disable all
notifications generated by that object for a day, week, month or
permanently.

.. note::

    This feature requires configuring
    :ref:`"OPENWISP_NOTIFICATIONS_IGNORE_ENABLED_ADMIN"
    <openwisp_notifications_ignore_enabled_admin>` to enable the widget in
    the admin section of the required models.
